Dave: Hello. Hi.
Michael Hoefer: Hey, can you hear me and see me.
Dave: Yes, I can. Can you hear me and see me.
Dave: Yes. Okay.
Great.
Michael Hoefer: Sorry. So I got, I was doing some house calls today and I got caught a little behind so I'm out of my car right now but
Michael Hoefer: OK, I see that
Michael Hoefer: I'm hoping we can still do the do the meeting, but I'm going to do here in a few minutes is I'm going to turn off the camera on my end.
Michael Hoefer: And we've kind of seen each other and introduce ourselves, we can kind of just do the interview from there and
Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Anyway, my name is Dr Hofer I'm an addiction psychiatrist and I think for right heart health.
Michael Hoefer: Right now, and we have about 30 to 40 minutes today where we're going to be talking about your opiate use but also your medical and psychiatric history.
Michael Hoefer: And then after that we'll be talking about a plan going forward.
Dave: Sounds good.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, cool. So, um, I'm going to just turn off the camera nouns are driving and then we'll, we'll keep talking.
Dave: Okay. Sounds good.
Michael Hoefer: What I would like to
Michael Hoefer: Actually just for driving stuff to do you mind turning your camera off. So it doesn't, uh,
Dave: Yeah, I'm not driving, I'm just sitting here, but I can turn it off.
Dave: Okay.
Dave: So better can you still hear me.
Michael Hoefer: Hi, Dave. Are you there.
Dave: Yes. Can you hear me.
Michael Hoefer: Hello.
Dave: Hi, can you hear me.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. Um, I can't hear you. Now, are you able to, uh,
Dave: Can you hear me now.
Dave: Hello.
Michael Hoefer: Can you hear me.
Dave: Yes.
Dave: Can you hear me.
Michael Hoefer: I can hear you. Yeah.
Dave: Yeah, I can. I can barely hear you. It's very muffled
Michael Hoefer: Okay, let me try to get
Michael Hoefer: My connected again.
Dave: OK, I can hear you now. Can you hear me.
Michael Hoefer: I can, yeah.
Michael Hoefer: Just see if I can get this going here.
Michael Hoefer: All right. Um, okay. How's the audio for you.
Dave: Good.
Michael Hoefer: Good. Okay. Great. All right, I'm going to leave this here and not touch anything. So it'll hopefully say
Michael Hoefer: Okay. Sounds good.
Michael Hoefer: Alright, so how did you hear about bright hearth health
Michael Hoefer: So I was in a detox clinic.
Michael Hoefer: And one of the patients there.
Said he used you guys
Dave: For the group sessions and for his Suboxone
Dave: medically assisted treatment. So he
Dave: Recommended you guys. And that's how I heard about
Michael Hoefer: You. Oh, cool. What detox. Were you in
Michael Hoefer: It's called serenity gardens.
Dave: And San Jose.
Okay.
Michael Hoefer: All right, great. And can you tell me a little bit about what brings you into treatment today.
Dave: So I been an oxy code on and
Dave: Xanax user for about seven
Years.
Michael Hoefer: And by in those last I got into recovery about a
Michael Hoefer: Year ago
Dave: And
Dave: I had multiple relapses
Michael Hoefer: Along the way,
Dave: And
Dave: I think I went back into treatment at the end of March.
Dave: Because I was in IoT tricking
Dave: Three many mentors.
Six months before that.
Dave: I got about 30 days of sobriety and then another 40
Dave: Days and then I have relapsed and I went on a run for
Dave: About
Dave: Four to six months and I'm really tired of the cycle.
Dave: I
Dave: Don't like, you know, using oxy coat on.
Dave: And I'm looking for a way that I can.
Dave: live my life without the dependence of
Dave: Oxygen and and Xanax and
Dave: Because of my anxiety.
Dave: And depression.
Michael Hoefer: I
Dave: Kinda
Michael Hoefer: I'm using I'm using
Michael Hoefer: oxy cotton to function.
Dave: And I that the downs that go along with the times that I've tried to stop.
Dave: The withdrawals have been really bad and I'm
Michael Hoefer: Really bad
Dave: I just can't seem to be able
Dave: To stay sober for an extended period of time, you know, I'm I want to do this for a lifetime.
Dave: Like you know and setting goals and I can't seem to reach more than you know.
Dave: A month or two at a time, one
Michael Hoefer: At a time.
Michael Hoefer: And what happens at that month or two time points that kind of happens that you go back
Dave: So it seems like I just can't find
Dave: Find like a sense of joy or contentment. It's almost like
Dave: Like when I initially
Dave: Initially have good gotten sober in the past.
Michael Hoefer: In the past, it's, it's a good, kind of like a particular thing. And I'm all done.
Michael Hoefer: As soon as that wears off.
Dave: You know that 30 days 90
Dave: Days, I, I just, even I go I go into a meeting in a meeting.
Dave: I've done group therapy.
Dave: The meditation. You know, I tried a lot of coping skills.
Dave: Right. It just seems like
Dave: Something's missing inside. I feel like
Dave: You know I'm missing just not fulfill. I just, and that's why I use it gives me a feeling of
Dave: Well, being so I know
Michael Hoefer: He's feeling
Michael Hoefer: Well, being
Dave: But obviously, when that wears off it.
Dave: Obviously the well being goes away and then I have a lot of sense of guilt.
Michael Hoefer: Goes away.
Dave: I can't get I can't get myself motivated to, you know, we're
Dave: Both a parent, my family, you know,
Michael Hoefer: We're
Dave: I just don't have the
Dave: I don't, I can't see any incentive
Michael Hoefer: To do things, it doesn't it doesn't seem like
Michael Hoefer: It doesn't. It doesn't seem like it's
Dave: It's leading anywhere. It's almost like I'm like I'm searching for something and then it just doesn't
Michael Hoefer: Doesn't. Gotcha. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, and how
Michael Hoefer: You know, how do you use the oxy cotton on when you use it.
Dave: It's
Dave: It's so
Michael Hoefer: I'll usually wake up in the mornings I haven't had anxiety.
Dave: Anxiety and I take it to kind of get going.
Dave: To do my daily routine.
Dave: I get to work.
Dave: Helps it gives me a real sense of
Dave: Energy, it gives me a lot of energy.
Dave: So I use it for them. I'm usually using that information was an x.
Dave: Because x
Dave: As I come down, I get it, and
Michael Hoefer: It balances valid balances out so
Dave: So I, I was using you know about
Michael Hoefer: You know about
Dave: 400 milligrams a day when it
Dave: Was my worst worst in combination with the
Michael Hoefer: Mountain with about
Dave: You know, six or eight milligrams Xanax Xanax every day and then obviously, then you know that
Michael Hoefer: You know that
Dave: It makes me drowsy. Yes.
Dave: He really can't do anything. And so it's
Dave: You know shorts verge or, you know, you know,
Dave: Half the day while I'm at work.
Dave: By the time I get home, I guess.
Dave: I pass out.
Dave: I crash and mash and then there's like Oregon's so
Dave: You know, from day to day
Dave: I tried to. Yeah. And do you do you, you know, do you swallow the oxy code on
Michael Hoefer: Earnings
Dave: snorting at yes
Michael Hoefer: And how about this add x you do it. Do you take those earlier days.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, those are jam or anything like that.
Dave: That's just
Michael Hoefer: It's just normal. Okay, gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: And have you ever had an overdose before where you required to locks. Oh.
Dave: No, I have not.
Michael Hoefer: I have not. Okay.
That's good, you know,
Michael Hoefer: Jack did drugs before
Dave: I've ever what
Michael Hoefer: I've ever injected drugs before
Dave: No, I have not.
Michael Hoefer: I have not. Okay.
Dave: But, you know, as I started drinking when I was younger. My you started in mind when I was 15 years old.
Michael Hoefer: Years old.
Dave: And
Michael Hoefer: I mean, I was able to
Dave: I graduated college graduated high school, I was able to
Dave: Get multiple
Michael Hoefer: jobs and jobs and
Dave: Pretty much all
Dave: Pretty much told them.
Michael Hoefer: All them.
Dave: But I've always
Michael Hoefer: I've always
Michael Hoefer: Mixed meals. I usually drink and taking painkillers and pencils pencils for
Dave: You know,
Michael Hoefer: 15 years 15 years
Michael Hoefer: And when you first started with the opiates. Was it a prescription or did you start off by them kind of from friends are on the street.
Dave: No, I actually played with my play baseball
Dave: Baseball. My freshman so
Dave: My freshman year in college when I was 18 I taught I taught my Libra.
Dave: Libra, and I was
Michael Hoefer: described them as bribe them and I took him for about
Michael Hoefer: For about
Dave: Six months and then I kind of stopped for a few years and there's I came across them again in college and I all
Dave: Been using them.
Michael Hoefer: Using
Dave: Pretty much consistently said
Dave: He's taking some time off ended up drinking and taking Xanax, but
Michael Hoefer: Drinking and Xanax, but
Dave: But yeah, I was prescribed kolata pen when I was younger.
Michael Hoefer: mad about it.
Michael Hoefer: Okay.
Michael Hoefer: So I've been taking
Michael Hoefer: Related to that, what
Dave: My login variety for the last
Dave: 47 days.
Michael Hoefer: 47 days. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: All right.
Michael Hoefer: And
Michael Hoefer: Have you been on Suboxone before in the past, and if so, for the longest period.
Dave: So,
Dave: When I got
Dave: Too many years ago for three months. And this most recent times, because I was only I my seven day detox and then a couple days after that and my prescription and
Michael Hoefer: Just ran out just ran out.
Dave: And then the past couple days I've been taking
Dave: Taking oxy
Michael Hoefer: Goddess. Okay. And how does Suboxone does the medication work well for you.
Dave: Yeah. So it sounds like
Dave: I don't get it. I really, I get I guess it's a call. I feel like I can think clearly.
Dave: And my anxiety.
Dave: Goes away it goes away.
Dave: That's what I've experienced with experience. Great. And do you have any side effects when you take it.
Dave: Know, I have a pretty high tolerance for drugs.
Dave: So i don't i don't really get drowsy. I don't
Dave: Know, I can't think of any side effects. It helps me sleep.
Michael Hoefer: Sleep. Sleep.
Dave: Yeah, I don't have any side effects.
Michael Hoefer: And side effects. Excellent. And what else have you been taking Suboxone in the path.
Dave: So I've taken up to
Michael Hoefer: Up to two milligrams a day so eight milligrams a day.
Dave: Today this most recent time I was on. I was on 12 milligrams a day and they taper down to
Michael Hoefer: six milligrams a day.
Michael Hoefer: Today, and then four and then I was
Dave: Because I ran out.
Michael Hoefer: I see. Okay. And have you been taking the tablets or the film or what what formulation
Michael Hoefer: This
Michael Hoefer: Is I actually prefer the pills.
Pills.
Dave: I
Dave: took a long time ago.
Dave: A year ago when I first got into the sobriety and but this most recent time it was
Michael Hoefer: The pill for the platform.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, so
Michael Hoefer: Sorry you prefer the film.
Michael Hoefer: Or the tablet. Those are the two different kinds
Dave: Either I honestly or it doesn't really
Dave: I kind of prefer the pills, just because I don't like to do some districts. It's hard to like
Michael Hoefer: I
Dave: Don't break it into the right shows
Michael Hoefer: Like
Dave: With the pills. I know exactly what I'm doing.
Michael Hoefer: I know exactly. Gotcha. Well,
Michael Hoefer: In the past, like when you were on it for three months. What was the situation of what you stop taking it like what happened.
Dave: So I was I wanted to challenge myself.
Dave: To try
Dave: To not take it not so
Dave: So I I last facility. I asked what an alternative would be
Dave: It would be so I was taking Gabba penta penta with my antidepressant.
Michael Hoefer: Stress and
Dave: And I was trying to see how about see
Michael Hoefer: How they worked work.
Dave: So that's why I stopped. I see.
Michael Hoefer: How long did you How long after stopping. Did you go back to using opiates.
Dave: And
Dave: It was
Michael Hoefer: About 30 days 30 days. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And have you ever taken now track zone or the patrol shot before
Dave: Um, yeah. So my
Dave: A year ago last April, actually, when I first got into recovery.
Dave: I
Michael Hoefer: Did
Michael Hoefer: Take Naltrexone for a little bit.
Michael Hoefer: More a little bit
Michael Hoefer: About 2020 days I
Michael Hoefer: Took it
Dave: But my my cravings are really
Michael Hoefer: Really
Dave: It seems like a heavy duty cravings, a day. And that's what I've been battling battling here.
Michael Hoefer: Here. Gotcha. So you have really strong cravings, that it sounds like the doubt track so and you took the tablets orally and they
Michael Hoefer: Yes. Did you find them helpful or not helpful.
Dave: You know, I can't
Michael Hoefer: I can't say that.
Michael Hoefer: They that
Dave: They help the cravings, you know i i don't
Michael Hoefer: I don't
Dave: I don't remember. Like when I taking it saying, oh, I said all
Michael Hoefer: shores. And did you ever take the patrol injection. The once a month Naltrexone injection
Dave: No, it's just the world.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. And have you ever taken methadone like liquid methadone clinic before
Dave: No, I have not.
Okay.
Michael Hoefer: To talk about the Xanax for a little bit. Have you ever had, like, a really bad withdrawal from Xanax, where you have like a seizure or
Michael Hoefer: You know, it had to be hospitalized for a detox from it.
Dave: I mean, no. I have no
Michael Hoefer: I have not
Dave: Okay, because I've had my check in on it.
Dave: Forever.
Michael Hoefer: Forever. What's the longest break you've had on the Xanax in like the last six months.
Dave: It was the seven day detox.
Michael Hoefer: Detox. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: All right. And how did you do off of it for for that period.
Michael Hoefer: Um,
Dave: Well, I'm diagnosed with Gerald things a generalized anxiety disorder. So
Michael Hoefer: My anxiety anxiety is
Michael Hoefer: Constant.
Dave: I know. I don't know if there was
Dave: If there was a kickback anxiety or whatever they call it like an extra version of anxiety.
Dave: But I seem to always have this uncomfortable anxious feeling
Dave: In you know in my heart.
Dave: So I can't tell you if thats
Dave: Related to was related to me, stopping Xanax, but it really
Michael Hoefer: Even when I had my you know for you.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Do you are you prescribed Xanax, are you, are you just buy it.
Dave: No, I get it, I get it has has
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. Okay. All right.
Michael Hoefer: Good. Aside from the opiates the Xanax, you know, you talked about alcohol, especially in the past, are you using any other substances currently
Dave: No, I'm not. No.
Michael Hoefer: No. Okay. Anything else you feel like in the past you, like, oh, I used to have a cocaine problem or a math problem or any other drugs you ever felt like an issue for you in the past.
Dave: No been
Michael Hoefer: Able to go on or Xanax
Dave: Supplemented alcohol.
Dave: Obviously that are all exactly what I don't want, I don't want it just
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, it's not a good, not a good choice for you.
Dave: Know, they're
Dave: Searching for that are going to bang and it does help as hell. You know, maybe
Michael Hoefer: Temporarily, but rarely but
Dave: You know, it's not good.
Michael Hoefer: Not good.
Michael Hoefer: And
Michael Hoefer: Have you been treated for your anxiety. I mean, have you have you done that, you know, cognitive, behavioral therapies and take it and I depressants for it. And, you know, really.
Michael Hoefer: It was a psychiatrist or therapist. Yes, I've been in psychiatry CVT I've done Dialectical Behavioral therapy.
Michael Hoefer: Meditation breathing. Breathing YOGA EXERCISE.
Michael Hoefer: Is
Michael Hoefer: That helpful for your anxiety.
Michael Hoefer: Really
Dave: Useful one when I do vigorous exercise.
Dave: Like it can help me sleep or something, you know, it helps for small amounts of time.
Dave: You know, like
Dave: I wake up in the morning I'm wearing jolted awake.
Dave: By anxiety.
Dave: You know,
Dave: For 35 in the morning.
Michael Hoefer: In the morning
Michael Hoefer: I just am I just
Dave: You know, I wake up.
Dave: And make I gotta
Dave: Do I gotta
Dave: Do something I got to get out of bed and get out of bed.
Michael Hoefer: And do you
Michael Hoefer: How much caffeine drink.
Michael Hoefer: I don't really drink coffee because I don't like the feeling I
Dave: Don't really drink soda. I
Dave: Stay away from caffeine.
Michael Hoefer: Excellent. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, and
Michael Hoefer: Any history of, you know, as far as psychiatric history. Have you ever been in a psychiatric hospital before. No, I have not.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. Have you ever had like that on a 5150 or had a suicide attempt.
Dave: No, I'm not.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. Do you currently have a psychiatrist or therapist that you're seeing
Dave: I was seen one before I got in my detox facility but
Dave: He's shut down.
Dave: coronavirus
Michael Hoefer: Virus.
Dave: So it's been a few months.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, and are what medications do you take like that are prescribed for you right now.
Dave: Right now I'm taking on Gabba Gabba
Dave: So off sertraline
Michael Hoefer: And then I always giving clock quantity as well.
Michael Hoefer: As well. Okay. And do you know the doses of those money chance
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, yeah. So I was 1200
Dave: Gallon
Dave: And the quantity point one milligram
Michael Hoefer: Telegraph's
Dave: In the morning and at night.
Michael Hoefer: At night.
Dave: And then sertraline is 25 milligrams in the morning.
Michael Hoefer: In the morning. Okay, gotcha. All right.
Michael Hoefer: And grab a pen. Can you take all 1200 milligrams at once, or you like spread it out through the day.
Michael Hoefer: No it's, it's, I usually take 600 milligrams in the morning in the morning.
Dave: Midway through the day. Take another 300 milligrams or another nice 300 900
Michael Hoefer: Milligrams. Gotcha. Okay, and where you just started on the search, really, like, was it just started like a couple of weeks ago.
Dave: I know that span.
Dave: 344 months now.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, and has it always been has it ever been in a higher dose than that.
Dave: Though so that
Michael Hoefer: Was that was supposed to be a quote starter dose.
Dave: But I haven't gone back to see to see if that should be adjusted be
Dave: Adjusted but I have. I've been on antidepressants pass
Dave: When I was younger, and
Dave: I really didn't like
It.
Dave: I couldn't feel feel I can feel happy.
Dave: Happy like it was kind of
Michael Hoefer: Like
Dave: Or blah, blah, blah.
Blah.
Michael Hoefer: All right, you have any allergies any medications.
Dave: I see core
Michael Hoefer: The core
Dave: I think what happens when
Michael Hoefer: You take that
Dave: I get a rash.
Dave: I haven't taken
Michael Hoefer: Like
Michael Hoefer: A baby, baby.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, and any medical issues that we need to know about that we haven't talked about
Dave: And no, sir.
Michael Hoefer: No, sir. Okay, any history of being hospitalized in the past for medical issues or hospital having surgeries.
Dave: Just my shoulder surgery I had when I was eight.
Michael Hoefer: Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And how, as far as family history anybody in your family with substance use issues like biologically related to, yes. Both my parents or
Dave: My brother is an alcoholic and cost me an addict. I'm not sure.
Michael Hoefer: I'm not sure.
Dave: And then, yeah. So my dad side by side, you know, cousins and uncles and stuff like that.
Michael Hoefer: But like that, but
Dave: Both my parents.
Michael Hoefer: Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Any. How about psychiatric issues, your family does anxiety or depression on your family.
Dave: Yeah, my dad has anxiety and my sister has sings ID and both my parents, my parents and my older sister had
Michael Hoefer: To
Dave: Deal with depression.
Dave: As well.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha giddy history of schizophrenia or bipolar disorder and your family.
Dave: And neither those
Michael Hoefer: Either those. Okay, great. And just for a little background. Where were you born and where did you grow up.
Dave: I was born and raised in mountain
Dave: View. And yeah, I went to school at Chico State and then they came back and I live in Sunnyvale California
Michael Hoefer: California now. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Now, what type of stuff have you done for work.
Dave: I'm, I'm in. I'm in operations manager.
Michael Hoefer: Manager.
Dave: So I've worked in the construction supply industry heavy equipment rentals.
Dave: rentals and I currently work for a distribution company.
Michael Hoefer: And you mentioned family. Are you are you partnered, are you married you have children.
Dave: Yes, I have a
Dave: Daughter
Daughter
Michael Hoefer: And
Michael Hoefer: How do you guys support yourself financially.
Dave: So I was on disability for the past year.
Dave: I went on for the substance use disorder. But my wife works.
Michael Hoefer: Full time. Okay.
Dave: And then I returned to work this past Monday.
Michael Hoefer: Monday. Okay. And how are things. How much does she know about your use our things know it in your marriage.
Dave: She is 100% aware
Dave: She's we have some codependency issues. So she's
Dave: She's been working really hard on herself.
Dave: Or going to therapy.
Dave: Therapy and
Dave: You know, when I first kind of every year ago a
Michael Hoefer: Year ago
Dave: She was very involved really wanted to, I was taking a drug test for
Michael Hoefer: Her
Michael Hoefer: And then
Michael Hoefer: When I relapsed
Put a wall up and
Dave: What got me into treatment was I was
Dave: She kicked me out of the house.
Dave: I was away from my daughter, my wife for a month before I entered or treatment.
Dave: Treatment right now she's trying to disconnect with
Michael Hoefer: With line.
Dave: Just let me
Michael Hoefer: Let me
Dave: She wants me to figure it out.
Dave: Myself.
Dave: Myself, but you know she is
Michael Hoefer: She does. She does.
Dave: She doesn't know what to do. She doesn't trust me and all the
Dave: You know all the things that go along with being with an addict.
Dave: And she wants our relationship to get better.
Michael Hoefer: Get better
Dave: For right now. She says she says pretty disconnected from a
Michael Hoefer: Message from me. Yeah. Okay. And this is that relationship. But you know the relationship with your daughters are those primary motivators to for your recovery.
Dave: Hundred percent
Michael Hoefer: Yeah. Great. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And
Michael Hoefer: When you you know when you were kicked out. Where do you stay where do you stay. Now if you're not with them.
Dave: So I'm actually after I
Michael Hoefer: After I
Dave: Got a detox and move back home.
Michael Hoefer: Back home.
Dave: So I've been there for three weeks.
We
Dave: When I got kicked out. I live with my parents, my
Dave: Parents until I relapse.
Michael Hoefer: The gaps again.
Dave: And I was staying in a hotel.
Michael Hoefer: Or a motel for a month.
Michael Hoefer: But
Dave: You know, if I continue to use. I will not. I won't be I
Michael Hoefer: Won't be at home.
Dave: If I know she doesn't want me there. Shalom, you're on my daughter. I don't want to be around my daughter.
Dave: So,
Dave: You know, that's kinda on the last stronger. I need to figure out something where I can
Michael Hoefer: Where I can
Dave: Manage My addiction recovery and part of my family.
Michael Hoefer: My family.
Michael Hoefer: And then feel feel good about myself. You know, I feel good about what I'm doing.
Michael Hoefer: What I'm doing
Dave: It's tough, it's really frustrating.
Michael Hoefer: Very frustrating. Yeah, it can be it can be very demoralizing what you're what you're really trying. But if something is not connecting or something is, you know,
Michael Hoefer: You know, you're getting
Michael Hoefer: A month or two, but like, you know,
Michael Hoefer: Kind of just a heads up practice figured out, kind of, what's the best structure.
Michael Hoefer: And so I have, I have a, I have a couple of it is. But before we talk about like a plan.
Michael Hoefer: I just, those are the main questions. I need to ask for the intake. I just wanted to check in and see if there's anything that I left out that you think is really important for me to know or if you had any questions for me Facebook.
Michael Hoefer: So far,
Dave: No, I just know people
Dave: For
People
Dave: Who are
Dave: In recovery that have been on methadone or and people that have been
Michael Hoefer: 10 years
Dave: oxen and weren't able to get off.
Dave: And said they didn't get the worst.
Dave: I've ever had.
Dave: But I've also
Had
Dave: Come across a lot of people that have gotten sober across a
Dave: Lot of people records at a time. It's very short.
Dave: relapsed and
Michael Hoefer: Died and then relapse and I know
Dave: It's, it's been really hard for them to manage and I known four or five people that have taken Suboxone treatment seems to work for that.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, so that's it that's in that state. But there's a couple of
Michael Hoefer: More. So I think one is
Michael Hoefer: You know, we recommend no matter who it is that, you know, you take Suboxone and stay on it for a while and usually that's a minimum of a year, but even for some people it's ideally a couple years and
Michael Hoefer: Then that allows you to get, you know, a certain amount of recovery time under your belt, but also built on the other social supports and things in your life so that
Michael Hoefer: If you had someone want to do a trial off of you have a good family relationship you have a good job, you have silver friends through you know whatever mutual support group your call, but
Michael Hoefer: You got your anxiety in a better place. And then at that point trying to come on goes a lot better. Yes.
Dave: I mean, that's the goal is to eventually come off. I just
Dave: Sick of going back and forth. You know, I
Dave: I just want to string together some time and if it's something to help
Michael Hoefer: You know,
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, absolutely.
Michael Hoefer: So that's what you mentioned is another important thing we know if people stopped too early or just detox or whatever.
Michael Hoefer: The data, the medical research clearly shows that 90% of people relapse to back to all be used within a year's time and a significant percentage of them die. So it's really risky to not be
Michael Hoefer: You know, it's really risky and dangerous to not be in treatment, but also not to be on some medication for an extended period of time. So, yeah, yeah.
Michael Hoefer: So with that being said, I think, you know, I think you have, you know, you certainly have an opioid use disorder. And I think you are really good candidate for Suboxone
Michael Hoefer: I once we're done talking tonight. If you're interested, I can just feel we're done a few minutes, I could put it in electronic prescription for you to pick up
Michael Hoefer: One week supply the medication, which is the most I'm allowed to give you based on the intake.
Okay.
Michael Hoefer: I do there is good data that shows that actually higher doses of Suboxone lead to better outcomes.
Michael Hoefer: better outcomes. I need less relapses and less people less dropping out of treatment.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, so for you. I would recommend that you take at least 60 milligrams of Suboxone a day.
Michael Hoefer: Seems to be kind of the threshold of the sweet spot of the research that people get a better response they stay a treatment longer at that knows
Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And so you can either take that all the morning or you can take, you know, will be giving you a milligram tablets and you could take one in the morning and one in the evening.
Michael Hoefer: Either ways, fine. Okay. Okay.
Dave: And they're like, eight hours, eight hours or
Michael Hoefer: So it's very interesting thing with Suboxone the anti addictive effects last about 24 hours but
Michael Hoefer: The pain of the pain affects last about six, eight hours. So if people struggle with pain issues at all. It's better to split it up.
Michael Hoefer: twice over the day if you don't really have paid it. You don't really dated when you take 60 milligrams, that it's easier to just take it in the morning and forget about it.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, okay. Either way, I can do that. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: So that's that. I think for your generalized anxiety.
Michael Hoefer: Which is clearly a big trigger for relapse in you and for lots of people, I think you're on a good medication regimen right now.
Michael Hoefer: But go on very low doses of
Michael Hoefer: Those medications so
Michael Hoefer: If you're still a lot of anxiety. My advice would be for you to increase those doses. OK. OK.
Dave: So the Gabba pending was prescribed
Dave: Prescribed by
Michael Hoefer: From
Dave: When I was in treatment. And so my presumption is going to run out. I
Michael Hoefer: Gotta run I'll
Dave: Not gonna have any lab.
Michael Hoefer: Have any lab. Yeah. So I'd be willing to give you some of those prescriptions.
Michael Hoefer: So, so I would recommend if you're if you're taking the guy with pension, you're still anxious, you're not feeling sedated when you take it. I think we should go up to 16. I mean, we think we should go up to 600 milligrams three times a day as
Michael Hoefer: You don't have to take it. If it's not, if you don't need it. But if your end
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, yeah, I got pill. Take it three times a day. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah.
Dave: I've been taking it as needed.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, good. And then we got to get this search lean up to, because you know 25 milligrams is really not going to do much.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, yeah, the doses of which sertraline org for anxiety are actually higher than the doses, they work for depression. So you should really be on a minimum of 100 milligrams of that medication, you know,
Michael Hoefer: Easy enough to it over time, but I'll be I'll prescribe you some 50 milligram tablets of circling
Michael Hoefer: That I want you to start taking start take 50 milligrams. And then after a week if you don't feel if you feel fine. No side effects. No, you're not numb, then you should go up to 100 milligrams
Michael Hoefer: Ok ok ok
Michael Hoefer: And then the quality is fine. That is also useful for, you know, anxiety, and you can take those as needed. Do you need a refill of those as well.
Dave: No, I have
Michael Hoefer: No, I have those
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha. Okay. And then I would. And then I don't want to do too many things at once because it's
Michael Hoefer: You know, then you never know what's going on. So I would leave it at that right now for the meds.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. Um, and then I think the real big things with generalized anxiety are exactly the things you're already doing. But just hammering those in absolutely no caffeine.
Michael Hoefer: As much exercises you can do. I mean, you know, it's hard. Was sheltering in place, but as much exercises you can do that will help
Michael Hoefer: If you can spend time in nature, especially when
Michael Hoefer: Things lift up. That's the you know hiking or just spending time at parks or
Dave: Is really high gain by being
Dave: By
Michael Hoefer: Those yeah yeah all of that. I mean, just that should be not just exercise that should be that should be considered like another prescription for you. Another
Michael Hoefer: Minute or mental hair. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: And then, you know, as far as the other stuff, you know, I would encourage you to look into.
Michael Hoefer: Depending on I think two types of mutual support groups that might work well for you.
Michael Hoefer: Are and you may have already aware of these event of these but smart recovery which has like a CVT based principles for addiction, which can also be used for anxiety I think would be a good group for you to consider.
Michael Hoefer: A 10 yeah yeah
Dave: I was going to a Monday night Monday night.
Michael Hoefer: Mr smart. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. And then there's also have you been to recovery Dharma meetings.
Dave: Yes, in Santa.
Michael Hoefer: Cruz. Yes. Okay. Cool. So you're aware of those two. And right now, you're probably where they're all fine, but there you can go online meetings all day. Anytime.
Michael Hoefer: There's also
Michael Hoefer: There's also a website that you may already know about in the rooms calm but they are like a clearinghouse that has a lot of meetings all day.
Dave: Yep. I've checked this out.
Michael Hoefer: Check those out. Okay, great. Alright, so, you know, I'm not an ideal all the stuff or
Dave: Yeah, I know. Yeah. Yes. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, um, and that's what I would do for right now, the next steps for our program are one of our care coordinators will call you in the next couple days and
Michael Hoefer: And talk to you and then get you connected. And so I'm just doing intakes for the program right now so you will be connected to a continuity or an ongoing therapist and an ongoing physician.
Michael Hoefer: And you'll and most of it is group based you know most of our care is weekly groups with other people who are in recovery and and using buprenorphine. But there's also some opportunities for individual work as well.
Sounds good.
Dave: Sounds good.
Michael Hoefer: Good. Okay, I think that's enough information.
Dave: Right now. Okay. Yeah. Okay.
Dave: No. So I'll just check in with someone
Michael Hoefer: Someone will give me a call next week. I have another meeting and I have another meeting. And, yeah, yeah. Exactly. Okay. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: I'll be able to pick up
Michael Hoefer: Tonight. Yeah. Yeah. Which pharmacy. Do you want me to use
Michael Hoefer: McKinley, okay.
Michael Hoefer: Cool. All right. Just the other thing I want to, I do want to make a brief mention about the Xanax um I you know I highly encourage you to try to avoid using Xanax as much as possible. It's
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, it's really effective, you know, acutely but it actually long term can make anxiety much worse and
Michael Hoefer: Yeah. And yeah, it's just, and you should also know that you know the having taken as long as you have it sometimes takes up to, like, a year and a half for your or longer for your anxiety levels to fully stabilized, but they will get better. Yeah, you can get a long term sobriety together.
Michael Hoefer: But it's just you know you're a young, young guy. And if you continue taking Xanax your anxiety levels you know are going to get are going to be, you know, are going to have a very much lower chance of getting better.
Dave: Over to yeah I would definitely
Dave: Not want
Michael Hoefer: To take that. Yeah. Okay, gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: All right, well,
Michael Hoefer: It's been really nice talking to you. Sorry. I haven't been able to like look you in the eye and have a more interactive talk, but, um, I really wish you the best of luck and I welcome to our program and I'll put in those prescriptions as soon as possible.
Dave: Sounds good.
Michael Hoefer: Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
Michael Hoefer: All right. Sure. Take care.
Dave: You too.
Michael Hoefer: Bye bye bye bye